Serialization in Rails is the process of converting a Ruby object or data structure into a format that can be easily transmitted or stored,
 such as JSON or XML.

When you send data from your Rails application to a client, you'll typically want to format the data in a way that's easy for the client 
to consume. This is where serialization comes in. Instead of sending the raw Ruby objects or database records, you can use a serializer 
to transform them into a format that can be easily parsed by the client.

For example, let's say you have a Post model in your Rails application. When you render a list of posts to send to the client, 
you might want to serialize the data in JSON format. A serializer for the Post model would take the data from the Post instances
 and format it in a way that can be easily parsed by the client, such as:


 [
  {
    "id": 1,
    "title": "My First Post",
    "body": "This is my first post on this blog."
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "title": "My Second Post",
    "body": "This is my second post on this blog."
  }
]


The primary difference between using a serializer and using Rails' built-in render json: method is that serializers 
provide more control and flexibility over the serialized output.

When you use the render json: method, Rails will automatically serialize your data using its default JSON serializer.
 This can be convenient for simple cases, but it can be more difficult to customize the serialized output to match your specific requirements.

With a serializer, you can define exactly what data should be included in the serialized output and how it should be formatted.
 This gives you much more control over the structure and content of the serialized data, making it easier to ensure that 
 it matches the format expected by your client.

In addition, serializers often provide a number of convenient features that are not available with the default render json: method. 
For example, serializers can:

Include only specific fields or associations in the serialized output
Customize the formatting of individual attributes or associations
Nest serialized data for associated objects
Handle complex data structures, such as arrays or hashes, more easily
Cache serialized data to improve performance
Overall, while Rails' default render json: method is useful for simple cases, serializers can provide more control and
 flexibility over the serialized output, making them a powerful tool for building APIs in Rails.